Mobile HCI 2017 Late Breaking notification - #129
Mobile HCI 2017 Late Breaking <mobilehci17g@precisionconference.com>	23 June 2017 at 07:11
Reply-To: latebreakingwork@mobilehci2017.acm.org
To: r02922148@ntu.edu.tw
Cc: latebreakingwork@mobilehci2017.acm.org



Dear Reinhard Pointner -

We are sorry to inform you that your paper

  129 - A Comparison of Soft Keyboards on Circular Smartwatches

has not been accepted to Mobile HCI 2017 LBW.

MobileHCI 2017 LBW had 69 submissions; of these, 30 were accepted, for an acceptance rate of 43.5%. The decisions as to which submissions to accept were made after careful review by a number of highly qualified experts from around the world. Reviewers evaluated not only the scientific merit of the work, but also the suitability for the LBW category i.e. the novelty (how 'late-breaking' the paper was) and its potential to trigger conversations.

We would very much like to encourage you to consider participating in Mobile HCI 2017.

Below, you will find the reviews for your submission.

Sincerely,
Paweł W. Woźniak and Thomas Reitmaier
MobileHCI 2016 LBW Co-Chairs

------------------------ Submission 129, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: A Comparison of Soft Keyboards on Circular Smartwatches

Reviewer:           primary

Overall

   4  (Weak accept)

Novelty

   4  (The paper has some novelty that clearly explained)

Enthusiasm

   The work will stimulate conversation

The Review

   (blank)

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

The Meta Review

   Both reviewers were mildly negative towards the paper.

   R1 notes that the paper is well-motivated and easy to understand. They
   point to important related work missing. Both reviewers mention missing
   details about the user study. R2 find the paper too open-ended. A key
   issue is that the proposed techniques appear to be subpar. Finally, R2
   points to formatting issues.

   While the reviewers concerns are clear and they need to be addressed for
   a final submission, I think that some of these flaws are acceptable for
   am LBW.


------------------------ Submission 129, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: A Comparison of Soft Keyboards on Circular Smartwatches

Reviewer:           external

Overall

   2  (Weak reject)

Novelty

   5  (There is good novelty in the paper)

Enthusiasm

   The work will stimulate some conversation

The Review

   The authors present a well written study of three different text entry
   methods for circular wrist-worn touch devices. The authors implemented
   two novel input techniques, and compared to a third, QWERTY based.

   The introduction and motivation are easy to understand, and well argued.
   The rest of the paper is also well presented. The study design looks
   promising, and the data is treated right. I however have a few issues
   with this research:

   Related Work:
   The authors neglect to describe the difference between circular and
   rectangular text entry methods. Almost all of the related works mentioned
   in the paper were implemented in rectangular interfaces. The authors need
   to mention what design considerations go into designing text entry in
   circular interfaces, and how well the "old" methods scale in such design
   constraints.

   Evaluation:
   "Randomly selected sentences from MacKenzie and Soukoreff". Were these
   random sentences the same random sentences for each keyboard? Sentences
   from this source have shown to be very different in terms of input speed
   (see [1]).

   "All of them were right-handed and 11 [of 12] chose to wear the
   smartwatch on their left wrist". Does this mean that 1 person (who was
   right-handed) used left hand to input?!

   Results:
   I think Figure 5, 6, and 7 are more important than Table 1, and
   enlarging, specifically Figure 5 would make the paper more accessible. I
   think Figure 5 shows that for all keyboards, learning has not yet
   stopped. This makes the argument of QWERTY being a well-known input
   method a bit weak (since the QWERTY layout also probably did not reach
   its full potential in this study).

   The authors phrase that the contribution of the two proposed methods is
   that they "did show merit in qualities such as character-by-character
   accuracy". I find this contribution quite weak; essentially the QWERTY
   layout was inferior to both of the proposed techniques, leaving little
   reason to employ the authors' proposed techniques.

   Overall:
   I really enjoyed reading the work, and I think the authors did a good
   job. I think in its current phrasing, it seems as if the authors propose
   two new techniques, that didn't work that well. I think the research
   would work better, had they done a comparison of existing techniques, and
   not claiming any novelty in input design. Such a comparison paper would
   probably need more input techniques for a longer duration of time,
   however.

   Minor things:
   "Even though smartwatch devices have become comparable to smartphones in
   terms of computing power" - not sure this is true.
   "More recent techniques such as VelociTap..." - VelociTap is actually
   older than SwipeKey mentioned just before.

   [1] http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2935360

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)


------------------------ Submission 129, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: A Comparison of Soft Keyboards on Circular Smartwatches

Reviewer:           external

Overall

   2  (Weak reject)

Novelty

   2  (The paper has limited novelty and is unclear)

Enthusiasm

   The work might stimulate limited conversation

The Review

   The paper is written in a way that it is easy to understand and the work
   the authors did is well presented. My main concern with the work is, what
   does the mobileHCI community gain from the paper. What is the new
   insight? Because the main outcome of the paper is:  QWERTY keyboards are
   still the best. Further, the related work section is short, and therefore
   I think the authors could have reported on input beyond touch see e.g.
   [X1].

   The authors claim in the abstract that there will be more insight into
   the char-by-char accuracy. However, I could not find statistical evidence
   in the paper which would have supported the authors claim. In general,
   the authors did not report on any ANOVA or statistical test. Which the
   HCI community would have expected from the work.
   Further, there is always a potential for a good char-by-char accuracy.
   However, there will always be an accuracy vs. TCT tradeoff. Thus if I'm
   searching longer for the correct key which the authors showed is the case
   and even argues for it, then the accuracy is better because the
   participant invests more time to find the correct spot and a thereby more
   precise position.

   The Section "User Performance" is unclear to me. "questionnaires and
   interviews" how have they bee conducted and how analyzed. The authors
   need to explain all the steps they did.

   I'm wondering how the QWERTY keyboard design was chosen are the key the
   same size as the android default keyboard? Could this have a bigger
   effect?
   One last remark regarding the three keyboards the text field size is
   different for the KeyDail, which could have had an effect on readability.

   I do think Limitations "Secondly" is wrong. All conditions have been
   counter balanced, and therefore all tree conditions have the same amount
   of training.

   The paper closes with an open end. And at the end, I did not learn
   anything beyond QWERTY is still the favorite keyboard. Which does not
   really move the community forward.

   # The template lags the DOI's

   [X1] Markus Funk, Alireza Sahami, Niels Henze, and Albrecht Schmidt.
   2014. Using a touch-sensitive wristband for text entry on smart watches.
   In CHI '14 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI
   EA '14). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 2305-2310. DOI:
   https://doi.org/10.1145/2559206.2581143

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)
